OPERATION WINTER SCAR
BRIEFING
08.05.5016u
https://files.catbox.moe/3u71mf.png

## **TRANSCRIPTION:**

All of you are standing side by side, at ease, on the bridge of a carrier. Not the Rio Grande, but an LSA wet-navy carrier, the **Eleventh Hour**. You have been sailing through one of Cressidium's Ocean for a few days now, spending most of your time just trying to get your sea legs. Colonel Petras stands before you, in front of an idle holotable, pacing up and down your line. Standing off to your right is 1st Lieutenant Kim, clearly deep in thought. 

You don't recognise one person in your line, a young man, but considering he's wearing a Gold Team patch the same as the rest of you? You have to assume you're getting your 5th and final member.

Colonel Petras begins.

"You've all read the brief. You know what we're up against. 30 months to hold out. Maybe we'll win, while we're at it."

He pinches the bridge of his nose and sighs, clearly tired but still determined.

"Right now, I have good reason to believe you five are the most dangerous people on this planet. Don't let it get to your head, you're still mortal. I'm sure the Vestans will prove that, in time. While we still have all of you, we need to use your talents wisely."

He turns around to a holotable, pressing a few buttons on the projected interface to display a map of the nearest continent.

"We've received some key intelligence from the **Vestan resistance**, local to this region. We’ve checked it ourselves, and we believe it to be extremely accurate. Now, some of you are already aware of **TARTARUS**, what little we know about it anyway. It's some sort of top-secret military program, one we’ve never been able to fully identify. After the attack on Nov Elysia, our analysts noted a pattern in the Sovereignty’s targets throughout the city, in particular companies involved in military space-defense programs as well as the disappearance of several scientists and engineers working on those programs. At the time, they were presumed to have been killed in the battle, now we aren’t so sure."

The display behind him changes to a cutaway schematic of some sort of large missile, carrying what looks to be a dozen warheads within it.

“This is the Surface-to-Orbit Reentry Munition, or **STORM**. It’s an intercontinental missile system the Sovereignty was developing during the cold war. It exits the atmosphere and then drops kinetic-kill munitions from orbit. Each missile can strike multiple targets at once, and the nature of the munitions bypasses conventional missile-defense systems. In theory, anyway. We never found any evidence that it was completed at the time and we assumed it had been mothballed, but based on the Sovereignty’s activities over the last few years we now believe TARTARUS is an attempt to revive it. And if they do, we don’t think this new government of theirs will hesitate to use it. Millions of lives could be at stake."

Now the screen changes to show a series of top-down images of a vast field lined with rows of aircraft. There are both military and civilian craft along with what look like orbital shuttles and several even larger vehicles, all in various states of disrepair and disassembly. Overlooking them all is a massive complex of some sort, perhaps a scrapping facility, though in typical Vestan fashion it looks like it could just as easily double as a hardened bunker.

“Based on recent materiel and personnel transfers, our resistance contacts believe that this facility, the **Angopolis Aerospace Reclamation Facility**, is in actuality a centerpiece of the TARTARUS project. It might even be a launch site, if the STORM is operational, which would be our worst case scenario. This is our strongest lead so far, and it’s come at a critical hour. We need to take this facility, and that’s where you come in.”

Among these personnel transfers noted by Colonel Petras is **Lieutenant Colonel Katya Drakonos**, an armored battalion commander reassigned to Angopolis as a garrison commander in charge of its security forces. Why a decorated officer who should be coordinating tank assaults has been assigned to an unassuming facility like this in the middle of a war is a mystery that can only be explained by the presence of something important enough to pull them off the front lines.

Colonel Petras goes on to explain that any sign of a large force moving toward the facility would immediately notify Vestan forces of the operation and put them on high alert, potentially provoking them into taking drastic measures in order to preserve their secrets. As a result, while the main LSA force pushes towards the Vestan stronghold-city of **Grevka**, Gold Team will instead be inserted along a stretch of the Southern coast on the basis that a small, mobile unit is less likely to be detected. 

However, the Vestan coastline is ringed with numerous defenses, ranging from anti-air batteries and anti-ship torpedo launchers to coastal bunkers and point-defense networks. 

Now, 1st Lieutenant Kim speaks up, the display behind himself and Colonel Petras changing to an image of a beach with a small base by the water.

"Myself and Captain Farris drew up strategies for a situation like this. It was weeks before Nov Elysia was attacked, before she was... She was captured. It's her experience with fighter screening tactics that became the basis of this whole plan. Your target is a coastal Vestan supply depot. You will insert using High-Mobility Packs, spec'd for increased flight time, launching via catapult from this ship. While you're in flight towards your objective, Union fighters will follow close behind and launch a barrage of missiles at your landing zone. The missiles will impact well before you land, which should provide enough cover to get you on the ground safely. Once you're there, you'll have to move quicky to secure the depot before they can raise the alarm. If we're lucky, you'll be able to move on towards the Angopolis Facility undetected."

1st Lieutenant Kim nods towards Colonel Petras, who takes over once again. The display behind him changes to an image of a rugged man with a grim expression, labelled **Vasil Gerou**.

"Once you've secured the depot, you'll have to link up with local resistance forces. Notably their commander, Vasil Gerou. They're running low on just about everything, so you'll help them with procuring reinforcements and additional equipment on-site. Then you'll move over land, through Vestan territory, to the Angopolis aerospace graveyard. From there, the objective is to neutralize the facility’s defenses, secure all intelligence, rescue any captives, and if necessary destroy the facility before the Sovereignty can put its plans for TARTARUS into motion."

The display behind him switches off.

"One last thing. In hopes of filling out your roster, and maybe keeping you reigned in a bit, we've assigned Warrant Officer **Kezil** to your team. Callsign **Forlorn**. He's a good pilot, and a natural problem solver. Rest up, you deploy at 0600 tomorrow. Dismissed."
