0:
briefing
start

# Mission 0:

## **Briefing**

# Overview

In the aftermath of **Operation Solstice Rain**, the *Vestan Sovereignty* rebuffed calls by *Union* representatives for a ceasefire between them and the *Leandric States Alliance*. The attack on *Nov Elysia* was, it turned out, the opening salvo of a coup launched by ultranationalist and neo-anthrochauvinist elements who viewed the existing Vestan government as weak, and who had been consolidating power for some time. Union’s arrival on *Cressidium* and the LSA’s overtures of alliance were the pretext they needed to set their plans in motion. Now in control of the government and the military, and with dissenters and rebels being hunted down, this new hardline Vestan Sovereignty has declared war against both the LSA and Union. They demand the unconditional removal of all Union forces from Cressidium and a return to the world’s isolationist policies, among other concessions. All further attempts at negotiation have been ignored.

This has placed Union in an unenviable position. Without being part of Union, Cressidium would not technically fall under its remit for military intervention. While Union forces were attacked during the Battle of Nov Elysia, this does not in and of itself constitute sufficient justification to participate in an ongoing war between foreign powers. Standard policy in a case such as this would be to pull back rather than involving themselves in the internal military affairs of a *Diasporan* world and inflaming things further.

However, while the current Vestan government has completely rejected Union’s invitation of membership, the LSA has not. Furthermore, it was the LSA that initially invited Union back to Cressidium after recontact, with a desire to reenter the wider galactic community as part of Union even prior to the outbreak of hostilities. Although the Sovereignty launched its attack before any formal agreements could be finalized, if Union were to depart Cressidium now it would leave the LSA to face this war alone, abandoning them after only just extending an offer of alliance and cooperation. The message this would send would undoubtedly damage any further relationship with the LSA, beyond repair. Beyond that, it could be argued that Union’s very presence on Cressidium at all might have pushed the conflict forward, which would in turn oblige them to accept some measure of responsibility. In what way should that responsibility be accepted?

These are all dilemmas with no easy answers, but inaction was not a viable option. Following weeks of intensive emergency deliberations by Union’s **Central Committee** once the official reports on the situation were filed, the LSA’s request for Union membership was formally approved and ratified. This wasn’t a decision without dissenting opinions, some of them made quite strongly, but the majority of votes among CentComm’s coalitions were in favor. It was additionally noted that the commanding officers, crew, and marines and Lancer pilots of the *UNS-CV Rio Grande* acquitted themselves well under difficult circumstances.

As a result, Union forces have officially entered the conflict on Cressidium on the side of the LSA. Their goal is the swift resolution of the war followed by a broader deescalation and, if possible, an eventual return to diplomatic negotiations, though the latter seems unlikely for now given the current state of the Vestan government. However, Union’s forces in-system are limited. The UNS-CV Rio Grande, the carrier which was assigned to escort *Ambassador Nilan Bannerjee* to Cressidium, is the only significant Union military asset in the region. Reinforcements are en route to relieve the Rio Grande but won’t arrive for another 30 months realtime due to the planet’s distance from the nearest blinkgate, Rainier. As such, Union’s primary role has been providing logistical support and strategic and tactical advice, intelligence gathering, and helping the LSA maintain orbital superiority. While the Rio Grande itself is unable to engage ground targets, its complement of strike craft have effectively secured the planet’s orbit after successfully engaging the comparatively limited Vestan navy. The Rio Grande also carries a limited complement of ground-capable forces in the form of mechanized chassis squads and marine elements, as well as **Gold Team**. Given their relatively limited numbers, the decision was made to integrate these elements into a combined unit with select LSA forces, allowing both groups to learn from eachothers’ tactics, training, and combat experience. This joint Union/LSA unit has been designated **Task Force Indigo** and placed under the command of LSA *Colonel Adon Petras* with additional oversight from *1st Lieutenant Alex Kim* of the Rio Grande.

# Summary

• The Vestan Sovereignty declares war on both the LSA and Union.
• Union could not support the LSA as Cressidium was not a member of Union.
• Union could not pull out of Cressidium without abandoning the LSA and Captain Brigid Farris (MIA).
• Union CentComm engages in emergency meetings to decide on a solution.
• Union CentComm formally approve and ratify the LSA's request for Union membership.
• Union officially enters into the war alongside the LSA.
• Due to Cressidium's distance from the Rainier Blink Gate, Union reinforcements will not arrive for another 30 months realtime.
• The UNS-CV Rio Grande remains the only Union military asset on Cressidium.
• The crew and complement of the Rio Grande, notably Gold Team, are integrated into a combined LSA Union/LSA Spec Ops unit designated Task Force Indigo.
• Task Force Indigo is placed under the command of LSA Colonel Adon Petras.

# Task Force Indigo 

Task Force Indigo’s remit is special operations, and since its creation the unit has conducted numerous actions over a period of months aimed at surgically and efficiently disrupting the Sovereignty’s ability to continue waging its war. These actions have included sabotage, reconnaissance, and intelligence-gathering operations; attacks on high-value targets; and spearheading combat actions against elite Vestan forces. When a mission is both high-risk and high-reward, Task Force Indigo is the first unit considered for the job. 

And now their latest mission might be the most vital and dangerous one they’ve been assigned yet. 

For a number of years – even before the establishment of recontact with Union – LSA intelligence has been aware of a top-secret Vestan military program codenamed “TARTARUS”. Increased mentions of TARTARUS were linked to a series of targeted raids against space-oriented LSA infrastructure such as launch facilities, companies manufacturing rocket and satellite technology, and observatories, including a covert strike against an oceanic platform housing a satellite monitoring array. LSA intelligence also connects these actions to numerous abductions and assassinations of scientists and engineers, both within the LSA and other nations, involved in rocketry, space launches, and missile design. Most recently, there is evidence of similar activities taking place during the Battle of Nov Elysia.

More troubling, there are even indications that Captain Farris was more than just a target of opportunity during this attack. It remains unclear why the Sovereignty went to such lengths to abduct her – her value as a hostage and as leverage for extracting concessions from Union seem the most likely explanations – but decrypted Sovereignty communications and Captain Farris’ own after-action reports paint a different picture, suggesting that Vestan forces were explicitly ordered to secure Farris for enhanced interrogation with a particular emphasis on “the principal target’s expertise.”

As a result of this intel, the LSA has come to suspect that the Sovereignty is attempting to revive an intercontinental payload system known as STORM, or Surface-to-Orbit Reentry Munition, a project that was in development during the height of the cold war between the two nations and which was shelved some decades ago. Large-scale missiles designed to fly over targets from orbit and deploy a series of kinetic-kill munitions along multiple trajectories, a weapon like this could significantly destabilize the balance of power between the two nations, giving the Sovereignty a weapon against which the LSA has no effective counter.

Now the LSA has finally obtained actionable intelligence on a facility directly linked to TARTARUS – and thus to the revival of the STORM project – and plans are being drawn up for an assault on this installation. The player characters (PCs), as part of Task Force Indigo, have been assigned to carry out this mission, which is timed to coin- cide with a large-scale LSA offensive against the Vestan stronghold-city of Grevka. They will be using this offensive as cover, acting while Sovereignty forces are focused on the main LSA advance. Once in the field, they will then be coordinating with members of the Vestan resistance – the same ones who discovered and delivered this intel in the first place.

This mission won’t be easy, and it will take the PCs into the heart of enemy territory, but if they succeed then this could be the turning point of the entire war.

# Stakes

Inability to assist resistance forces will severely diminish their effective capabilities. The TARTARUS facility itself remains a mystery, but failure to take it quickly may result in the loss of valuable intelligence, hostages, and potentially even more serious consequences depending on the exact nature of TARTARUS itself.

